Add code guidelines for eventing team (#628)
kyma-project/community: concepts/eventing-code-guidelines.md

# Eventing team code guidelines

**Document Intention** 

The intention of this document is to provide style, testing, and code guidelines for components of the **eventing** team. Other teams in Kyma may follow different guidelines.

> The document is supposed to be a **living** document that can be changed by anyone in the team. However the team majority (50%) must agree on changes for this guideline. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The document is supposed to be a **living** document that can be changed by anyone in the team. However, the team majority (50%) must agree on changes for this guideline. 
```

> This guide shall be publicly available so that it can be referenced when reviewing pull requests. The agreements of this guide shall not affect **external collaborators**. If an external PR does not align with our guidelines, we should accept the PR as it is and apply the guidelines ourselves in a follow-up PR so we don't block external contributors. Of course, also external PRs shall meet our quality standards but we shouldn't be too nitpicky.

Reviewer: Who are the external collaborators? Non-Tunas or non-Kyma contributors?

Author: As discussed internally: we leave it as it is. 
It means external people who are not working primarily for Kyma.

For now, the guidelines shall be applied to new code (PRs). There is no need to rewrite our entire code base now. This will gradually happen over time. As soon as the code reflects our guidelines, the need to look into this guide will decrease more and more.

## Table of contents

<!-- generate me with markdown-toc 
```bash
// source: https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc
markdown-toc -i --maxdepth 2 eventing-code-guidelines.md
Do NOT TOUCH anything between the toc comments because this is used as a `marker` where to place the toc for markdown-toc.
```
-->

<!-- toc -->

<!-- tocstop -->

## Recommended libraries

> The following section describes the **desired choice** of **libraries** for testing, logging, etc.

Reviewer: no real need to highlight this at all, it's also the headline, thus emphasized by definition.

Author: I see your point 👍

### Testing

**Testing frameworks**:

Use [`t.Testing`](https://pkg.go.dev/testing) for unit tests and for controller integration tests.

<!-- voting options for testing framework in controller integration tests:
1. testing.T // proposed by guidelines
1. [ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo)
-->

**Assertion libraries**:

<!-- voting options for assertion libraries in unit tests:
Right now we use both: testing.T and gomega. We should reach a consensus here to have consistency.

1. testing.T
2. [stretchr/testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify)
3. [onsi/gomega](https://github.com/onsi/gomega)
-->

> Use [`gomega`](https://github.com/onsi/gomega) for writing test **assertions** in controller integration tests. Do not use [stretchr/testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify) unless you have a reason for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [`gomega`](https://github.com/onsi/gomega) for writing test **assertions** in controller integration tests. Do not use [stretchr/testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify) unless you can justify it.
```

A reason could be "I felt like doing that for variety" but that's probably not a valid reason?

**Mocking libraries**:

> Use [stretchr/testify/mock](https://github.com/stretchr/testify#mock-package) in combination with [vektra/mockery](https://github.com/vektra/mockery) for generating mocks or create your own mock by implementing the corresponding interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [stretchr/testify/mock](https://github.com/stretchr/testify#mock-package) in combination with [vektra/mockery](https://github.com/vektra/mockery) for generating mocks, or create your own mock by implementing the corresponding interface.
```

> Logrus is in maintenance-mode. We will not be introducing new features. It’s simply too hard to do in a way that won’t break many people’s projects, which is the last thing you want from your Logging library (again...).

> Many fantastic alternatives have sprung up. Logrus would look like those, had it been re-designed with what we know about structured logging in Go today. Check out, for example, Zerolog, Zap, and Apex.

For these reasons, `uber-go/zap` is the **preferred** structured logging library.

Furthermore, consider using `github.com/kyma-project/kyma/common/logging/logger`, which provides further **abstraction** over `uber-go/zap`.

<!-- voting options:
1. [ueber-go/zap](https://github.com/uber-go/zap) // proposed by guidelines
2. [logrus](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus) 
-->

#### See also

- [Kyma Logging Proposal](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/observability-consistent-logging/improvement-of-log-messages-usability.md)

## Documentation guidelines

Code is read many times but sometimes only written once. Therefore you should always make sure that you follow these guidelines.

> **Guidelines**:

Reviewer: is the order of steps important, or can those guidelines apply in any order (I suspect the order doesn't matter). If it doesn't matter, I'd suggest an unordered list with bullets/dashes.

Author: Order is not important. Will change it as proposed :)

```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Do</summary>

To make the side-effect more obvious, the following example uses a function named `MarkReady` instead.

```go
getAPIRule(ctx, apiRuleNew).Should(And(
	HaveNotEmptyHost(),
	HaveNotEmptyAPIRule(),
))
MarkReady(apiRuleNew) // instead consider using another function that explicitly states from the name that it applies a side effect
```
</details>

## Testing pyramid in Kyma

The following section describes the different testing levels for Kyma. These levels are usually seen as a [pyramid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test_automation#Testing_at_different_levels):
- At the bottom of the pyramid, you should have the **most** test cases because they are usually very **fast**. However, you are limited in what you can test because external dependencies are **mocked**. Unit tests are an example of this.
- At the top of the pyramid, there are usually **fewer** tests because these tests take **longer**. However, these tests are a more realistic scenario of how the end user will use our product. E2E tests are an example of this.

### Controller Integration Tests (kubebuilder)

**Test Setup**

> Controllers using the kubebuilder framework bootstrap integration tests using `Ginkgo` (for testing) and `Gomega` (for assertions).

Reviewer: that's a lot of "using" in one sentence. Can we rephrase/split the sentence so it's easier to understand?

> Using the `controller-runtime/pkg/envtest` package, a kubernetes **control-plane** (**API server** and **etcd**) is started locally once before the first test runs (`BeforeSuite`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `controller-runtime/pkg/envtest` package, a Kubernetes **control-plane** (**API server** and **etcd**) is started locally once before the first test runs (`BeforeSuite`).
```

You can also use a custom Kubernetes cluster (see [USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/envtest.html) environment variable).

**Goal**
The goal of a controller integration test is to test the Kubernetes controller in a **limited** Kubernetes **environment**. That means that dependencies of the controller - such as other controllers (APIRule controller) or external eventing system - are not present. These systems are only present in higher hierarchies of the testing pyramid.

> Controller integration tests should be reserved for cases when we care about the eventual state of the object or need a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: Do you mean "eventual" as in "final", or is this a special meaning related to "Eventing" that I'm not familiar with? If "final", I'd suggest writing "final" :D

```suggestion
Controller integration tests should be reserved for cases when we care about the final state of the object or need a Kubernetes cluster.
```

Author: I think eventual is the better fit (coming from **eventual consistency** in kubernetes).

[source](https://downey.io/blog/desired-state-vs-actual-state-in-kubernetes/#:~:text=Since%20Kubernetes%20is%20optimized%20for,eventually%2C%20the%20system%20will%20converge):
> Since Kubernetes is optimized for running resilient, highly available workloads, it chooses Availability. State updates are propagated over time in what is known as [eventual consistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency). Eventual consistency means that if no new updates are made to a system, then eventually, the system will converge

Example from [kubernetes blog](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/): 
> The design aim is for you to be able to request deletion and know when processes terminate, but also be able to ensure that deletes eventually complete.

## Testing guidelines 

The following section describes ugly tests or problems that we discovered in our code base. The testing guidelines provide suggestions how the tests can be written instead.
The guides should be used whenever possible but are not set in stone. There might be cases where the proposed solution does not fit and that is ok.

**Best practice**:
- Find a **balance** between [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) (keep it simple stupid) and [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) (don't repeat yourself). Tests should be easily `understandable`. At the same time, you should **avoid** code **duplication** because it gets **unmaintainable** very fast.
- **Split** heavy test **setup** from actual test.
- Test **one thing** at a time. This aligns with the KISS principle as well. Focus on the **main concern** of a test and don't test more than what you need. Comments on tests are welcome, but might also be an indication for a test that is either (1) too complex or (2) tests too many things simultaneously. 

> Concentrating on the main concern makes the individual tests shorter, easier to understand, better to maintain and expresses the intention of the test better. If multiple things are tested at the same time, there is **no guarantee** that someone will take this secondary thing out of the test. If there are multiple tests however, you can easily see that a test case was removed and argue whether this is ok or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concentrating on the main concern makes the individual tests shorter, easier to understand, better to maintain and expresses the intention of the test better. If multiple things are tested at the same time, there is **no guarantee** that someone will remove this secondary thing from the test. However, if there are multiple tests, you can easily see that a test case was removed and argue whether this is ok or not.
```

		t.Run(tc.name, func(t *testing.T) {
			res := functionUnderTest(tc.givenAttribute)
			fmt.Println(res)
		})
	}
}
```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Do</summary>
// TODO: use golang as markdown lang everywhere

```go
func TestSomething(t *testing.T) {
	testCases := []struct {
		name           string
		givenAttribute string
		wantAttribute  string
	}{
		{ // field names are set
			name:           "meaningful test name",
			givenAttribute: "this attribute is an input to the test",
			wantAttribute:  "this is the expected output",
		},
	}
	for _, tc := range testCases {
		t.Run(tc.name, func(t *testing.T) {
			res := functionUnderTest(tc.givenAttribute)
			fmt.Println(res)
		})
	}
}
```

</details>

**Example 2**: Two-dimensional table test using exec function

<details>
  <summary>Don't</summary>

The following example shows a version of a **two-dimensional** **table test**. The test is encapsulated in a function named **exec** and called multiple times with different arguments. This is the **first dimension** of the test.

The second dimension of the test is visible in the `t.Run` command, which creates a subtest for each entry in `handlertest.TestCasesForCloudEvents`.

> Technically, you can use it this way. However, it is better to use a **pure two dimensional table test** instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technically, you can use it this way. However, it is better to use a **pure two-dimensional table test** instead.
```

			name:                 "meaningful test name",
			givenApplicationName: testingutils.ApplicationName,
			givenEventType:       testingutils.CloudEventTypeNotClean,
			givenEventTypePrefix: testingutils.MessagingEventTypePrefix,
			wantNatsSubject:      testingutils.CloudEventTypeNotClean,
		},
	}
	for _, tc := range testCases {
		for _, ceTestCase := range handlertest.TestCasesForCloudEvents {
			t.Run(tc.name+" - "+ceTestCase.Name, func(t *testing.T) {
			// other code is unchanged
			})
		}
	}
}

```

</details>

**Example 3:** Don't repeat yourself (**DRY**) and consider a table-driven test instead.

<details>
  <summary>Don't</summary>

The following example shows two nearly identical tests. The only difference is that `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` additionally **closes** the **connection** before sending the event, in contrast to `TestSendCloudEvent`.
The test `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` has another problem that prevents rewriting both tests as a table test: It sends an event twice. Once with an open connection, then with a closed connection. The **main concern** of the test is to ensure that the **connection** is **re-established**. Then it is in closed state.

> However, it is enough to close the connection before sending the first event. There is no need to send the event twice. Reducing the test to the **bare minimum** allows us to rewrite it as a table-driven test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it is enough to close the connection before sending the first event. There is no need to send the event twice. Reducing the test to the **bare minimum** enables us to rewrite it as a table-driven test.
```
It wasn't forbidden before. It was just impossible.

## Table of contents

<!-- generate me with markdown-toc 
```bash
// source: https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc
markdown-toc -i --maxdepth 2 eventing-code-guidelines.md
Do NOT TOUCH anything between the toc comments because this is used as a `marker` where to place the toc for markdown-toc.
```
-->

<!-- toc -->

- [Recommended Libraries](#recommended-libraries)
- [Documentation Guidelines](#documentation-guidelines)
- [Dockerfile Guidelines](#dockerfile-guidelines)
- [Coding Guidelines](#coding-guidelines)
- [Testing Pyramid in Kyma](#testing-pyramid-in-kyma)
- [Testing Guidelines](#testing-guidelines)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Recommended Libraries

The following section describes the `desired choice` of `libraries` for testing, logging, etc.

### Testing

**Testing frameworks**:

Use [`t.Testing`](https://pkg.go.dev/testing) for `unit` tests and for controller integration tests.

<!-- voting options for testing framework in controller integration tests:
1. testing.T // proposed by guidelines
1. [ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo)
-->

> **Assertion librariers**:

Reviewer 2: typo `librariers` -> `libraries`.

> **Assertion librariers**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Assertion libraries**:
```

<!-- voting options for assertion libraries in unit tests:

> Right now we use both: testing.T and gomega. We should reach a consens here to have consistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right now we use both: testing.T and gomega. We should reach a consensus here to have consistency.
```

## Documentation Guidelines

Code is read many times but sometimes only written once. Therefore you should always make sure that you follow these guidelines.

**Guidelines**:
1. Add `documentation` to `all exported` functions, variables, types etc. Comments on private elements are also welcome because they help the reader.
1. Assume that there is a generated html `version` of our `docs` on <https://pkg.go.dev>, for example [here](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/kyma-project/kyma/components/eventing-controller@v0.0.0-20220204130403-a0b8b10f369d#section-readme) for the eventing-controller.
1. Comments on exported functions, variables, or types shall `start` with the name of the element and `end` with a dot (`.`). Write real sentences.

**Example**:

```go
// source: https://go.dev/blog/godoc

// Fprint formats using the default formats for its operands and writes to w.
// Spaces are added between operands when neither is a string.
// It returns the number of bytes written and any write error encountered.
func Fprint(w io.Writer, a ...interface{}) (n int, err error) {
```

> If you are in doubt how to write the godoc properly, run `godoc` and check the genrated documentation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are in doubt how to write the godoc properly, run `godoc` and check the generated documentation:
```

```bash
$ go install golang.org/x/tools/cmd/godoc@latest
$ godoc -http=:8080
```

### Bad Practice

**Example1**: Using backticks when referring to arguments in the method signature

<details>
	<summary>Don't</summary>

In the example, `w` is the first argument to the function `Fprint`.

> It is not necessary to put w in backticks. Goland supports jumping to the element defintion (at least sometimes :-D). Using backticks however breaks the feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is not necessary to put w in backticks. Goland supports jumping to the element definition (at least sometimes :-D). Using backticks however breaks the feature.
```

))
MarkReady(apiRuleNew) // instead consider using another function that explicitly states from the name that it applies a side effect
```
</details>

## Testing Pyramid in Kyma

The following section describes the different testing levels for Kyma. These levels are usually seen as a [pyramid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test_automation#Testing_at_different_levels):
- At the bottom of the pyramid, you should have the `most` test cases because they are usually very `fast`. However, you are limited in what you can test because external dependencies are `mocked`. Unit tests are an example of this.
- At the top of the pyramid, there are usually `fewer` tests because these tests take `longer`. However, these tests are a more realistic scenario of how the end user will use our product. E2E tests are an example of this.

### Controller Integration Tests (kubebuilder)

**Test Setup**
Controllers using the kubebuilder framework bootstrap integration tests using `Ginkgo` (for testing) and `Gomega` (for assertions).
Using the `controller-runtime/pkg/envtest` package, a kubernetes `control-plane` (`API server` and `etcd`) is started locally once before the first test runs (`BeforeSuite`).

> You can also use a custom Kubernetes cluster (see `USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER` environment variable).

Reviewer 3: (nit) 
```suggestion
You can also use a custom Kubernetes cluster (see `USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER` environment variable in the kubebuilder docs).
```

Author: @VladislavPaskar Thanks for the suggestion. I would go one step further and directly link USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER to the kubebuilder docs. I will apply this suggestion instead:

```suggestion
You can also use a custom Kubernetes cluster (see [USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/envtest.html) environment variable).
```

- [envtest godoc](https://pkg.go.dev/sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/envtest)

### Unit Tests

[Unit tests](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_testing) are used to test individual `units` of the code. To test the unit in an `isolated` fashion, external `dependencies` are typically `mocked`.
Unit tests provide a very fast `feedback cycle` and help discovering bugs in a very `early stage`.
The advantage of unit testing is that "[Code can be impossible or difficult to unit test if poorly written, thus unit testing can force developers to structure functions and objects in better ways.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_testing)"
The big disadvantage of unit tests is that they are tightly coupled to the code, so rewriting the code may require new or modified unit tests.

## Testing Guidelines 

The following section describes ugly tests or problems that we discovered in our code base. The testing guidelines provide suggestions how the tests can be written instead.
The guides should be used whenever possible but are not set in stone. There might be cases where the proposed solution does not fit and that is ok.

**Best Practices**:

> - Find a `balance` between [`KISS`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) (keep it simple stupid) and [`DRY`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) (don't repeat yourself). Tests should be easily `understandable`. At the same time, you should `avoid` code `duplication` because it gets un`maintaineable` very fast.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Find a `balance` between [`KISS`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) (keep it simple stupid) and [`DRY`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) (don't repeat yourself). Tests should be easily `understandable`. At the same time, you should `avoid` code `duplication` because it gets `unmaintainable` very fast.
```

- `Split` heavy test `setup` from actual test.

> - Test `one thing` at a time. This alignes with the KISS principle as well. Focus on the `main concern` of a test and don't test more than what you need. Comments on tests are welcome, but might also be an indication for a test that is either (1) too complex or (2) tests too many things simultaneously. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Test `one thing` at a time. This aligns with the KISS principle as well. Focus on the `main concern` of a test and don't test more than what you need. Comments on tests are welcome, but might also be an indication for a test that is either (1) too complex or (2) tests too many things simultaneously. 
```

> Concentraing on the main concern makes the individual tests shorter, easier to understand, better to maintain and expresses the intention of the test better. If multiple things are tested at the same time, there is `no guarantuee` that someone will take this secondary thing out of the test. If there are multiple tests however, you can easily see that a test case was removed and argue whether this is ok or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Concentrating on the main concern makes the individual tests shorter, easier to understand, better to maintain and expresses the intention of the test better. If multiple things are tested at the same time, there is `no guarantee` that someone will take this secondary thing out of the test. If there are multiple tests however, you can easily see that a test case was removed and argue whether this is ok or not.
```

- `Don't` test the `unforeseen`. Instead, think about the code and derive useful test scenarios (best and worst case). Think about what is the `happy path` ? What is the `unhappy path` ?
- Especially complex tests need `documentation` so that the reader understands them better.

**Goals**:
- Avoid regression: Whenever you close a bug, make sure that this bug will not get reintroduced. 
<!-- voting question:

> does it makse sense to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
does it makes sense to:
```

Use [`t.Testing`](https://pkg.go.dev/testing) for `unit` tests and for controller integration tests.

<!-- voting options for testing framework in controller integration tests:
1. testing.T // proposed by guidelines
1. [ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo)
-->

**Assertion librariers**:

<!-- voting options for assertion libraries in unit tests:
Right now we use both: testing.T and gomega. We should reach a consens here to have consistency.

1. testing.T
2. [stretchr/testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify)
3. [onsi/gomega](https://github.com/onsi/gomega)
-->

Use [`gomega`](https://github.com/onsi/gomega) for writing test `assertions` in controller integration tests. Do not use [stretchr/testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify) unless you have a reason for it.

**Mocking Libraries**:

Use [stretchr/testify/mock](https://github.com/stretchr/testify#mock-package) for generating mocks or create your own mock by implementing the corresponding interface.

<!-- voting options:
1. [stretchr/testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify#mock-package) // proposed by guidelines and already used by eventing-controller
2. gomock aka [golang/mock](https://github.com/golang/mock)

> 3. [vektra/mockery](https://github.com/vektra/mockery)

Reviewer 4: This mockery tool generates mocks using the `stretchr/testify` mock package.

Reviewer 3: I used the mockery in my unit test [PR](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/13315/files) and it was very easy and served completely my purposes

Author: @raypinto I see. Thanks for the explanation 😃 I will combine these two entries then.

**Guidelines**:
1. Add `documentation` to `all exported` functions/variables/types etc. Comments on private elements are also welcome because they help the reader.
1. Assume that there is a generated html `version` of our `docs` on <https://pkg.go.dev>, e.g. [here](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/kyma-project/kyma/components/eventing-controller@v0.0.0-20220204130403-a0b8b10f369d#section-readme) for the eventing-controller.
1. Comments on exported functions/variables/types shall `start` with the name of the element and `end` with a dot (`.`). This forces you to write real sentences.

**Example**:

```go
// source: https://go.dev/blog/godoc

// Fprint formats using the default formats for its operands and writes to w.
// Spaces are added between operands when neither is a string.
// It returns the number of bytes written and any write error encountered.
func Fprint(w io.Writer, a ...interface{}) (n int, err error) {
```

If you are in doubt how to write the godoc properly, run `godoc` and check the genrated documentation:
```bash
$ go install golang.org/x/tools/cmd/godoc@latest
$ godoc -http=:8080
```

> ### Bad Practice

Author: Jep, I changed example to `Good practice` and made it a `header`.

> **Example1**: Using backticks when referring to arguments in the method siganture

Reviewer 4: signature*

<details>
	<summary>Don't</summary>

In the example `w` is the first argument to the function `Fprint`.

> It is not necessary to put p in backticks. Goland supports jumping to the element defintion (at least sometimes :-D). Using backticks however breaks the feature.

Reviewer 4: you mean "put w in backticks"?

Reviewer: good spot, didn't notice that :D

But let's put the p in backticks: 
bapptipps! packpicks!

Author: @raypinto Jep, will fix it. Thank you 😃

```go
// Fprint formats using the default formats for its operands and writes to `w`.
// Spaces are added between operands when neither is a string.
// It returns the number of bytes written and any write error encountered.
func Fprint(w io.Writer, a ...interface{}) (n int, err error) {
```

</details>

### See Also

- [Tutorial on writing go doc using godoc itself](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/natefinch/godocgo#hdr-Formatting)

- [godoc on go bloc](https://go.dev/blog/godoc)

- [Go doc finder - Kyma eventing-controller example](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/kyma-project/kyma/components/eventing-controller@v0.0.0-20220204130403-a0b8b10f369d)

## Dockerfile Guidelines 

- no shell in container
- do not run as root user if not necessary
- use [multi-stage](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/) build pattern

## Coding Guidelines 

### One line arguments vs multiline arguments

<details>

> 	<summary>Don't: method call with arguments on same lin</summary>

Author: I took @NHingerl suggestion.

```
</details>

## Testing Pyramid in Kyma

The following describes the different testing levels for Kyma. These levels are usually seen as a [pyramid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test_automation#Testing_at_different_levels):
- at the `lower end` of the pyramid, you should have the `most` test cases because they are usually very `fast`, however, you are limited in what you can test because external dependencies are `mocked`. Unit tests are an example of this.
- at the `higher` end of the pyramid, there are usually `less` tests because these tests take `longer`. However, these tests are a more realistic scenario of how the end-user will use our product. E2E tests are an example of this.

### Controller Integration Tests (kubebuilder)

**Test Setup**
Controllers using the kubebuilder framework bootstrap integration tests using `Ginkgo` (for testing) and `Gomega` (for assertions).
Using the `controller-runtime/pkg/envtest` package, a kubernetes `control-plane` (`API server` and `etcd`) is started locally once before the first test runs (`BeforeSuite`).

> The option to use a custom kubernetes cluster exists as well (see `USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER` environment variable).

Author: I think your first suggestions makes more sense here because the intention is not to provide an alternative. It is more like an additional information.

	assert.Nil(t, err)
	assert.Equal(t, status, http.StatusNoContent)

	// wait for subscriber to receive the messages
	err = testingutils.WaitForChannelOrTimeout(done, time.Second*3)
	assert.NoError(t, err, "Subscriber did not receive the message")
}
```

</details>

The test `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` contains a lot of code only to setup the test environment (see `test setup start` and `test setup end` markers). In order to make the test itself `shorter` and `cleaner` it can be useful to extract the test setup code.  

The idea is to move all parts of the test setup into a struct and create a helper method to start/stop the environment 

<details>
  <summary>TestEnvironment struct</summary>

```go 
// TestEnvironment contains the necessary entities to perform NATS integration tests
type TestEnvironment struct {
	context context.Context
	logger  *logrus.Logger

	// natsServer is a real NATS server for integration testing.
	natsServer *server.Server
	// backendConnection is a connection to the NATS server.
	backendConnection *pkgnats.Connection
	// natsMessageSender is a sender for publishing events to the NATS server.
	natsMessageSender *NatsMessageSender
} 
```
</details>

> The struct contains the NATS server, a client to send messages to NATS and the connection to NATS as well as a context and a logger.  

Author: The second option :)

	//////////////////////////////
	testEnv := setupTestEnvironment(t, pkgnats.WithMaxReconnects(tc.givenRetries))

	//////////////////////////////
	// test setup end
	//////////////////////////////

	// subscribe to subject
	done := make(chan bool, 1)
	validator := testingutils.ValidateNatsMessageDataOrFail(t, fmt.Sprintf(`"%s"`, testingutils.CloudEventData), done)
	testingutils.SubscribeToEventOrFail(t, testEnv.BackendConnection, testingutils.CloudEventType, validator)

	// create cloudevent with default data (testing.CloudEventData)
	ce := cloudevents.NewEvent()
	ce.SetType(testingutils.CloudEventType)
	err := json.Unmarshal([]byte(testingutils.StructuredCloudEventPayloadWithCleanEventType), &ce)
	assert.Nil(t, err)

	// send the event to NATS and assert that the expectedStatus is returned from NATS
	status, err := testEnv.backendConnection.Send(testEnv.context, &ce)
	assert.Nil(t, err)
	assert.Equal(t, http.StatusNoContent, status)

	// wait for subscriber to receive the messages
	err = testingutils.WaitForChannelOrTimeout(done, time.Second*3)
	assert.NoError(t, err, "Subscriber did not receive the message")
}
```
</details>

### GWT (given-when-then) pattern

> The [Given-when-then](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Given-When-Then) pattern is a good way to structure code inside a test by adding comments so that the following intentions are made clear:

Author: Good point. I think it should be all capitalized (Given-When-Then) because it is a known term in testing.

1. When: This is usually the time when you want to call the `functionUnderTest`.
1. Then: This is the part where you make sure that the `functionUnderTest` is working as expected by using `assertions`.

```go
	// given
	// create a subscription using the mocked client
	sub, err := client.Create(subscription)
	g.Expect(err).ToNot(BeNil())
	
	// when
	// call the testable function
	functionToTest(sub)
	
	// then
	g.Expect(sub).To(BeNil())
```

Sometimes you need to add more comments to the tests (in addition to the GWT comments). We recommend to add them underneath the GWT comments.

Especially when the test code is very long, the GWT comment pattern improves the readability of the code.

### Table-driven tests

[Table-driven tests](https://go.dev/blog/subtests) are a very common way of expressing `multiple` `test cases` while `sharing` the same test setup, thus avoiding test duplication. 
It also helps in providing context and meaning to the test cases.

**Conventions**:
- We follow the convention that every test has a `name`. Input variables to the test are prefixed with `given` and expected output is prefixed with `want`.

> <!-- voting options for test input:

Reviewer 4: 2. give

> <!-- voting options for test input:

Reviewer 4: 3. provide

> <!-- voting options for test input:

Reviewer 4: 2. give

> <!-- voting options for test input:

Reviewer 4: 3. provide

1. given // currently suggested
2. give
3. provide
-->

> <!-- voting options for test output:

Reviewer 4: 2. expect

> <!-- voting options for test output:

Reviewer 4: 3. expected

> <!-- voting options for test output:

Reviewer 4: 2. expect

> <!-- voting options for test output:

Reviewer 4: 3. expected

This is the same test as before but each `exec` function was replaced with an entry in the `testCases` list. For each entry in `testCases` and `handlertest.TestCasesForCloudEvents` a subtest is started using `t.Run`. The name of each subtest is combined using input from both dimensions.

```go
func TestNatsHandlerForCloudEvents(t *testing.T) {
	testCases := []struct {
		name                 string
		givenApplicationName string
		givenEventType       string
		givenEventTypePrefix string
		wantNatsSubject      string
	}{
		{
			name:                 "meaningful test name",
			givenApplicationName: testingutils.ApplicationName,
			givenEventType:       testingutils.CloudEventTypeNotClean,
			givenEventTypePrefix: testingutils.MessagingEventTypePrefix,
			wantNatsSubject:      testingutils.CloudEventTypeNotClean,
		},
	}
	for _, tc := range testCases {
		for _, ceTestCase := range handlertest.TestCasesForCloudEvents {
			t.Run(tc.name+" - "+ceTestCase.Name, func(t *testing.T) {
			// other code is unchanged
			})
		}
	}
}

```

</details>

**Example 3:** Don't repeat yourself (`DRY`) and consider a table-driven test instead.

<details>
  <summary>Don't</summary>

> The following example shows two nearly identical tests. The only difference is that `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` additionally `closes` the `connection` before sending the event in contrast to `TestSendCloudEvent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows two nearly identical tests. The only difference is that `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` additionally `closes` the `connection` before sending the event, in contrast to `TestSendCloudEvent`.
```

> The test `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` has another problem which prevents us from rewriting both tests as a table test. It does send an event twice. Once with an open connection, second with a closed connection. The `main concern` of the test is to ensure that the `connection` gets `re-established` then it is in closed state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` has another problem that prevents rewriting both tests as a table test. It sends an event twice. Once with an open connection, then with a closed connection. The `main concern` of the test is to ensure that the `connection` is `re-established`. Then it is in closed state.
```

> It is however enough to close the connection before sending the first event. There is no need for sending the event twice. Reducing the test to the `bare minimum`, allows us to easily rewrite it as a table-driven test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it is enough to close the connection before sending the first event. There is no need to send the event twice. Reducing the test to the `bare minimum` allows us to rewrite it as a table-driven test.
```

	assert.True(t, bc.Connection.IsClosed()) 
	sendEventAndAssertStatus(ctx, t, sender, &ce, http.StatusNoContent) 
} 
``` 

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Do</summary>

```go 
func TestSendCloudEventsToNats(t *testing.T) {
	testCases := []struct { 
		name                               string
		givenRetries                       int
		wantHTTPStatusCode                 int
		wantReconnectAfterConnectionClosed bool
	}{ 
		{
			name:                              "sending event to NATS works",
			givenRetries:                      1,
			wantHTTPStatusCode:                http.StatusNoContent,
			wantClosedConnectionBeforeSending: false,
		},
		{
			name:               "sending event to NATS works given a closed connection",
			givenRetries:       10,
			wantHTTPStatusCode: http.StatusNoContent,
			// Close connection before sending so we can check the reconnect behaviour of the NATS connection.
			wantClosedConnectionBeforeSending: true,
		},
	} 
	for _, tc := range testCases {
		t.Run(tc.name, func(t *testing.T) {
			testEnv := setupTestEnvironment(t, pkgnats.WithMaxReconnects(tc.givenRetries))

			// subscribe to subject
			subject := fmt.Sprintf(`"%s"`, testingutils.CloudEventData)

> 			// NOTE: we are using the testEnv.natsRecvConnection instead of testEnv.natsSendConnection because the latter will get reconnected based on wantClosedConnectionBeforeSending, this will fail the test when trying to receive a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			// NOTE: We are using the testEnv.natsRecvConnection instead of testEnv.natsSendConnection because the latter will get reconnected based on wantClosedConnectionBeforeSending. This will fail the test when trying to receive a message.
```

			done := subscribeToSubject(t, testEnv.natsRecvConnection, subject)

			// create cloudevent with default data (testing.CloudEventData)
			ce := cloudevents.NewEvent()
			ce.SetType(testingutils.CloudEventType)
			err := json.Unmarshal([]byte(testingutils.StructuredCloudEventPayloadWithCleanEventType), &ce)
			assert.Nil(t, err)

			if tc.wantClosedConnectionBeforeSending {
				// close connection
				testEnv.natsSendConnection.Connection.Close()
				// ensure connection is closed

> 				// this is important because we want to test that the connection gets re-established as soon as we send an event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				// this is important because we want to test that the connection is re-established as soon as we send an event
```

				assert.True(t, testEnv.natsSendConnection.Connection.IsClosed())
			}

> 			// send the event to NATS and asserts that the expectedStatus is returned from NATS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			// send the event to NATS and assert that the expectedStatus is returned from NATS
```

			status, err := testEnv.natsMessageSender.Send(testEnv.context, &ce)
			assert.Nil(t, err)
			assert.Equal(t, tc.wantHTTPStatusCode, status)

			// wait for subscriber to receive the messages
			err = testingutils.WaitForChannelOrTimeout(done, time.Second*3)
			assert.NoError(t, err, "Subscriber did not receive the message")
		})
	}
}
```
</details>

#### See Also
- [Table-driven test basics](https://go.dev/blog/subtests)

### Provide test documentation on package level

> It is very useful to have some documentation in the test file which describes how the test works from a birds eye view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very useful to have some documentation in the test file, describing how the test works from a bird's-eye view.
```

> Our recommendation is to put this documentation directly at the beginning of the file, before the `package` declaration and before the `imports`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Put this documentation directly at the beginning of the file, before the `package` declaration and before the `imports`.
```

> The following is an example of the file `components/event-publisher-proxy/pkg/sender/nats_test.go`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following example of the file `components/event-publisher-proxy/pkg/sender/nats_test.go`:
```

```go
// Tests in this file are integration tests.

> // They do use a real NATS server using github.com/nats-io/nats-server/v2/server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// They use a real NATS server using github.com/nats-io/nats-server/v2/server.
```

Author: Found its way in. Thank you 👍

// Messages are sent using NatsMessageSender interface.
package sender
```

> By following this approach, no godoc will be generated for the package `sender` because it is a test file (ending with `_test` prefix).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this approach, no godoc is generated for the package `sender` because it is a test file (ending with `_test` prefix).
```

### Consistency

#### Assertion Library

> The following example is from the event-publisher-proxy. The tests mostly use the `testify/assert` pkg for writing test assertions, but sometimes `testing.T` is used as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example is from the event-publisher-proxy. The tests mostly use the `testify/assert` package for writing test assertions, but sometimes `testing.T` is used as well.
```

Author: The change found its way into the document. Thank you :)

```bash
// source: https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc
markdown-toc -i --maxdepth 2 eventing-code-guidelines.md
Do NOT TOUCH anything between the toc comments because this is used as a `marker` where to place the toc for markdown-toc.
```
-->

<!-- toc -->

- [Recommended Libraries](#recommended-libraries)
- [Documentation Guidelines](#documentation-guidelines)
- [Dockerfile Guidelines](#dockerfile-guidelines)
- [Coding Guidelines](#coding-guidelines)
- [Testing Pyramid in Kyma](#testing-pyramid-in-kyma)
- [Testing Guidelines](#testing-guidelines)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Recommended Libraries

The goal of this section is to describe the `desired choice` of `libraries` for testing, logging, etc.

### Testing

**Testing frameworks**:

Use [`t.Testing`](https://pkg.go.dev/testing) for `unit` tests and for controller integration tests.

<!-- voting options for testing framework in controller integration tests:
1. testing.T // proposed by guidelines
1. [ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo)
-->

**Assertion librariers**:

<!-- voting options for assertion libraries in unit tests:
Right now we use both: testing.T and gomega. We should reach a consens here to have consistency.

> 1. testing.T

Author: option 1

logrus does not enforce you to use structured logging but you can use it. 
Citing from the logrus github page it is clear that zap is the modern alternative to logrus:
> Logrus is in maintenance-mode. We will not be introducing new features. It’s simply too hard to do in a way that won’t break many people’s projects, which is the last thing you want from your Logging library (again...).

> Many fantastic alternatives have sprung up. Logrus would look like those, had it been re-designed with what we know about structured logging in Go today. Check out, for example, Zerolog, Zap, and Apex.

For these reasons `uber-go/zap` is the `preferred` structured logging library.

Furthermore consider using `github.com/kyma-project/kyma/common/logging/logger` which provides further `abstraction` over `uber-go/zap`.

<!-- voting options:
1. [ueber-go/zap](https://github.com/uber-go/zap) // proposed by guidelines
2. [logrus](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus) 
-->

#### See Also

- [Kyma Logging Proposal](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/observability-consistent-logging/improvement-of-log-messages-usability.md)

## Documentation Guidelines

> Code is read many times but sometimes only written once. Therefore you should always make sure that you follow these guidelines.

Author: I am always in for more linter rules 😃

> Code is read many times but sometimes only written once. Therefore you should always make sure that you follow these guidelines.

Reviewer 5: I was wondering why we don't do it

> Code is read many times but sometimes only written once. Therefore you should always make sure that you follow these guidelines.

Author: @k15r @FriedrichWilken I created an issue for it: https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/13463

**Guidelines**:
1. Add `documentation` to `all exported` functions/variables/types etc. Comments on private elements are also welcome because they help the reader.
1. Assume that there is a generated html `version` of our `docs` on <https://pkg.go.dev>, e.g. [here](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/kyma-project/kyma/components/eventing-controller@v0.0.0-20220204130403-a0b8b10f369d#section-readme) for the eventing-controller.

> 1. Comments on exported functions/variables/types shall `start` with the name of the element and `end` with a dot (`.`). This forces you to write real sentences.

Author: What do you want to tell me with this ? 🤔

> 1. Comments on exported functions/variables/types shall `start` with the name of the element and `end` with a dot (`.`). This forces you to write real sentences.

Reviewer 6: imho we should just point to the link. You can find everything you wrote and more there.

> 1. Comments on exported functions/variables/types shall `start` with the name of the element and `end` with a dot (`.`). This forces you to write real sentences.

Reviewer: I think it's justified to write the essential instructions here and refer to the exhaustive doc for details. 
https://go.dev/blog/godoc is a really long document and hard to scan quickly. Will readers really read that wall of text (and extract the important bits) if we just point to the link?

> 1. Comments on exported functions/variables/types shall `start` with the name of the element and `end` with a dot (`.`). This forces you to write real sentences.

Author: @k15r I agree with @NHingerl argumentation. 

@k15r Would you like to have a link to https://go.dev/blog/godoc on the same line ? It is already mentioned in the `See Also` section.

The pattern works very well in tests where similar objects must be constructed multiple times. Here it is essential for the developer to quickly see what the important configuration of these objects for a given test case is.

#### Guidelines for the pattern

* Dont create Option functions for required arguments. As required arguments must not be omitted, it makes no sense to make them optional.
* Names for Option functions should start with `With` followed by a short description of their purpose. Keep in mind that these names might be shortened by the developers IDE. Important information needs to be easily spotted in those names.
e.g.

```
WithSinkFromSVC // configures a sink. The values are taken from a service
WithProtocolBEB // configures the Protocol to be BEB
```

#### Bad Practice

**Example 1**: Return function from WithSomething method
<details>
	<summary>Don't</summary>

```go
// source: https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/13242/files#diff-2f168bb71c1ca8d2f5781bac737393acd9bc3a1f829bdbe91093b7db54972433L130
func WithExemptHandshakeBefore(p *eventingv1alpha1.ProtocolSettings) {

> 	p.ExemptHandshake = func() *bool { // yes this could be refactored to utils.BoolPtr(true)

Reviewer 6: can you make this a bit clearer? Is this about the BoolPtr or is it about not returning a ProtocolSettingsOpt from WithExemptHandshakeBefore?

Author: It is about `returning a ProtocolSettingsOpt from WithExemptHandshakeBefore`
I made it clearer. Please have another look 😃

As a reader you would not expect that it performs a `side-effect` on the `apiRuleNew`.

```go
// source: https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/a84f76f674babfc63e369bbba44de76499cf475d/components/eventing-controller/controllers/subscription/beb/reconciler_test.go#L592
getAPIRule(ctx, apiRuleNew).Should(And(
	HaveNotEmptyHost(),
	HaveNotEmptyAPIRule(),
))
WithStatusReady(apiRuleNew) // <= WithStatusReady not used inside a function which is accepting a functional option as input (e.g. `APIRuleOption`)
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Do</summary>

In order to make the side-effect more obvious this example uses a function named `MarkReady` instead.

```go
getAPIRule(ctx, apiRuleNew).Should(And(
	HaveNotEmptyHost(),
	HaveNotEmptyAPIRule(),
))
MarkReady(apiRuleNew) // instead consider using another function which explicitly states from the name that it applies a side effect
```
</details>

## Testing Pyramid in Kyma

The following describes the different testing levels for Kyma. These levels are usually seen as a [pyramid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test_automation#Testing_at_different_levels):

> - at the `lower end` of the pyramid you should have the `most` test cases because they are usually very `fast`, however you are limited in what you can test because external dependencies are `mocked`. Unit tests are an example of this.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- at the `lower end` of the pyramid, you should have the `most` test cases because they are usually very `fast`, however, you are limited in what you can test because external dependencies are `mocked`. Unit tests are an example of this.
```

Author: @k15r Commas found its way inside the sentence. I assume through a review suggestion from @NHingerl.

> - at the `higher` end of the pyramid there are usually `less` tests because these tests take `longer`. However these tests are a more realistic scenario of how the end user will use our product. E2E tests are an example of this.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- at the `higher` end of the pyramid, there are usually `less` tests because these tests take `longer`. However, these tests are a more realistic scenario of how the end-user will use our product. E2E tests are an example of this.
```

Reviewer: I agree with the commas but [end user](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/end%20user) needs no hyphen :D 
(in general, [noun compounds](https://help.sap.com/viewer/DRAFT/e33c591ae4494a659a3f5f983c9d1161/PROD/en-US/b703f0cb978f49aeb3e35ebb4e051a4b.html) usually don't need a hyphen, adjective compounds often do. Probably just to keep things interesting ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ )

Author: @k15r @NHingerl Commas found its way inside the sentence. I assume through a review suggestion from @NHingerl.
End user is without hyphen.

- `Split` heavy test `setup` from actual test.
- Test `one thing` at a time. This alignes with the KISS principle as well. Focus on the `main concern` of a test and don't test more than what you need. Comments on tests are welcome, but might also be an indication for a test which is either (1) too complex or (2) tests to many things simultaneously. 
Concentraing on the main concern makes the individual tests shorter, easier to understand, better to maintain and expresses the intention of the test better. If multiple things are tested at the same time, there is `no guarantuee` that someone will take this secondary thing out of the test. If there are multiple tests however, you can easily see that a test case was removed and argue whether this is ok or not.
- `Don't` test the `unforeseen`. Instead think about the code and derive useful test scenarios (best and worst case). Think about what is the `happy path` ? What is the `unhappy path` ?
- Especially complex tests deserve some `documentation`. This helps the reader of the test to better understand it.

**Goals**:
- Avoid regression: Whenever you close a bug, you should make sure that this bug will not get reintroduced. 

> <!-- voting question:

Reviewer 6: Voting:
does it make sense to:
1. use regression in the test name to indicate whether a test is a regression test ?

Reviewer 6: 2. link a PR or issue to the test so that you can understand even two years later, what the problem was at the time ?

	assert.NoError(t, err, "Subscriber did not receive the message")
}
```

</details>

The test `TestSendCloudEventWithReconnect` contains a lot of code only to setup the test environment (see `test setup start` and `test setup end` markers). In order to make the test itself `shorter` and `cleaner` it can be useful to extract the test setup code.  

The idea is to move all parts of the test setup into a struct and create a helper method to start/stop the environment 

<details>
  <summary>TestEnvironment struct</summary>

```go 
// TestEnvironment contains the necessary entities to perform NATS integration tests
type TestEnvironment struct {
	context context.Context
	logger  *logrus.Logger

	// natsServer is a real NATS server for integration testing.
	natsServer *server.Server
	// backendConnection is a connection to the NATS server.
	backendConnection *pkgnats.Connection
	// natsMessageSender is a sender for publishing events to the NATS server.
	natsMessageSender *NatsMessageSender
} 
```
</details>

The struct contains the NATS server, a client to send messages to NATS and the connection to NATS as well as a context and a logger.  

> In addition to the scruct we need a helper method to setup the actual environment:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In addition to the struct we need a helper method to setup the actual environment:
```

<details>
  <summary>setupTestEnvironment()</summary>

```go
func setupTestEnvironment(t *testing.T, connectionOpts ...pkgnats.BackendConnectionOpt) TestEnvironment {
	// ... some code is left our for readability here
	natsServer := testingutils.StartNatsServer()
	return TestEnvironment{
		context:           ctx,
		natsServer:        natsServer,
		backendConnection: bc,
		natsMessageSender: sender,
		logger:            logger,
	}
}
```

> A common problem when having this kind of helper method to setup some test environment is what the caller (the test) has to do the cleanup.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
A common problem with this approach is that the caller (the test) has to do the cleanup.
```

> We can however shift the cleanup to the helper method as well using `testing.CleanUp`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
However, we can  shift the cleanup to the helper method as well using `testing.CleanUp`:
```

For now the guidelines shall be applied to new code (PRs). There is no need to rewrite our entire code base now. This will gradually happen over time. As soon as the code reflects our guidelines, the need to look into this guide will decrease more and more.

## Table of contents

<!-- generate me with markdown-toc 
```bash
// source: https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc
markdown-toc -i --maxdepth 2 guidelines.md
Do NOT TOUCH anything between the toc comments because this is used as a `marker` where to place the toc for markdown-toc.
```
-->

<!-- toc -->

- [Recommended Libraries](#recommended-libraries)
- [Documentation Guidelines](#documentation-guidelines)
- [Dockerfile Guidelines](#dockerfile-guidelines)
- [Coding Guidelines](#coding-guidelines)
- [Testing Pyramid in Kyma](#testing-pyramid-in-kyma)
- [Testing Guidelines](#testing-guidelines)
- [Style Guidelines](#style-guidelines)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Recommended Libraries

The goal of this section is to describe the `desired choice` of `libraries` for testing, logging, etc.

### Testing

**Testing frameworks**:

> Use [`t.Testing`](https://pkg.go.dev/testing) for `unit` tests and for controller integration tests.

Reviewer 6: in general: do we want to put the reasoning here as well?

Author: @k15r Do you mean for `unit` or `controller integration tests`? If for controller integration tests I would like to wait for the result of the `voting` session however (`voting options for testing framework in controller integration tests`).

But in general having a reasoning for a decision should be documented in this document.

Reviewer 3: It also perhaps make sense to analyse which framework we already use in our code base, because it's easier to test when you already have the know-how. 
So if we mainly used one framework/technology and know how to apply it, why not keep using that ?

Author: @VladislavPaskar do you mean for unit or controller integration tests? And with `we` do you mean eventing  components or Kyma wide ?

For unit tests we use testing.T consistently in our evening components as far as I know. Only the matcher libraries are inconsistent (sometimes testify, sometimes gomega, sometimes pure testing.T assertions).
For controller integration tests we use ginkgo for all eventing related reconcilers.
Are you aware of any exceptions to this ?

After a longer team discussion we decided to give testing.T a try instead of ginkgo. @FriedrichWilken is working on this and is rewriting our ginkgo tests to table-driven tests using testing.T with gomega as matcher library.

Author: @FriedrichWilken What are the arguments ? I am interested 😃

>  But since we already have a huge testing lib with custom matchers, it would be an unreasonable amount of work to rewrite them too

True, the guideline is saying in the introduction that 
> For now, the guidelines shall be applied to new code (PRs).

So there is no need to rewrite our entire code base after merging this proposal. It shall only help us in finding a consensus.
